Update guidelines on using GenAI (#1778)
python/devguide: getting-started/generative-ai.rst

> .. _generative-ai:

Reviewer: Please also retain this reference in the new page.

Author: @hugovk Thanks. I opened a new PR. #1806

> .. _generative-ai:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. _ai-tools:
```

=================================

> Guidelines in using Generative AI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Guidelines for using AI tools
```

> =================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=================================
Guidelines on using Generative AI
=================================
```

> Generative AI tools are evolving rapidly, and their work can be helpful. As with using any tool, the resulting

Reviewer 3: It wasn't done before in this file for some reason, but could we please wrap lines?

Reviewer: I was going to say the opposite :)

The rewrap make it hard to review what has changed. Please can we keep a minimal diff for now, and only rewrap just before merge?

Reviewer 3: Just before merge sounds good to me :-)

> Generative AI tools are evolving rapidly, and their work can be helpful. As with using any tool, the resulting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generative AI tools can produce output quickly. As with using any tool, the resulting
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should personify the tools any longer. I also want to be more objective about the results.

Reviewer 4: Perhaps just simplify to:

"AI tools can produce results quickly. As with using any ..."

---

FWIW, "their work" was not intended as personification, it a extremely common phrase for how we refer to any machines or really any objects serving any purpose in English.  good bad or indifferent.

We should remove the word "Generative" to simplify this further.  "produce output" reads as rather a diss on AI models and agentic harnesses that belittles their (non-personified) capabilities that would make for a somewhat dated feeling policy.  "results" is more what people are looking for and encompasses all sorts of actions taken.

I don't like saying "produce output" for the same reason that "generative" doesn't _quite_ have the right ring to it. Internally things done by agentic AI are is technically "output" in the output tokens turning into tool calls that iteratively converge on the goals we asked for sense. But AI _users_ see the end result rather than how it happened inside.

Reviewer 5: "produce output quickly" is pretty different from the original intent of this sentence, which to me is talking about the rate of change of tools themselves

The speed of generation is not really relevant in my mind, but the acknowledgement that our guidelines may not contain everything that is most helpful to the reader in whatever latest state of the world they find themself in is

Reviewer 2: @gpshead @hauntsaninja When I originally authored the doc back in October 2024, the industry and tool availability was very different than today.

I think it makes good sense to drop the term Generative AI in most of this document and go with the simpler term "AI tools".

> Generative AI tools are evolving rapidly, and their work can be helpful. As with using any tool, the resulting

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
AI tooling is evolving rapidly, and their work can be helpful. As with using any tool, the resulting
```

contribution is the responsibility of the contributor. We value good code, concise accurate documentation,

> and avoiding unneeded code churn. Discretion, good judgment, and critical thinking are the foundation of all good

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and well scoped PRs without unneeded code churn. Discretion, good judgment, and critical thinking are the foundation of all good
```

contributions, regardless of the tools used in their creation.

Considerations for success
==========================

> Authors must review the work done by AI tooling in detail to ensure it actually makes sense before proposing it as a PR.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Authors must review the work done by AI tooling in detail to ensure it actually makes sense before proposing it as a PR or filing it as an issue.
```

> We expect PR authors to be able to explain their proposed changes in their own words.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
We expect PR authors and those filing issues to be able to explain their proposed changes in their own words.
```

Disclosure of the use of AI tools in the PR description is appreciated, while not required. Be prepared to explain how
the tool was used and what changes it made.

Whether you are using Generative AI or not, keep the following principles in mind for the quality

> of your contribution:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whether you are using AI tools or not, keep the following principles in mind for the quality
of your contribution:
```

Unacceptable uses
=================

> Maintainers may close issues and PRs that are not useful or productive, regardless whether

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Maintainers may close issues and PRs that are not useful or productive, regardless of whether
```

Unacceptable uses
=================

Maintainers may close issues and PRs that are not useful or productive, regardless of whether

> AI was used or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Maintainers may close issues and PRs that are not useful or productive, regardless of whether
AI tools were used or not.
```

If a contributor repeatedly opens unproductive issues or PRs, they may be blocked.

Sometimes AI assisted tools make failing unit tests pass by altering or bypassing the tests rather than addressing the

> underlying problem in the code. Such changes do not represent a real fix and are not acceptable.

Reviewer 4: I'd like to see this worded in more general terms rather than using such a specific example (older models did this a lot more than 2026's).  What this is really getting at is that we want people to be cautious about reward hacking rather than addressing the actual underlying problem in a backwards compatible manner.

maybe something along the lines of:

"Some models have had a tendency of reward hacking by making incorrect changes to fix their limited context view of the problem at hand rather than focusing on what is correct. Including altering or bypassing existing tests. Such changes do not represent a real fix and are not acceptable."

Reviewer 2: I think this can be generalized beyond AI tools to humans as well.

Reviewer 2: "Some AI tools may provide responses to a user's prompt that diverge from recommended practices since the AI tool may not have been trained on the full context of the problem and recommended practices. Sometimes, due to limited context, the tool will alter or bypass existing tests. Such changes do not offer a real fix and are not acceptable."

Reviewer 4: I'd avoid using the word "trained" as that has a specific meaning in the AI field that isn't really the reason.  Focusing on "context" is good as that's the important and widely known term used in AI.

Just "... the AI tool may not have the full context of the problem and recommended practices. You need to provide it that.".

I've never really _liked_ the _"Sometimes, due to limited context, the tool will alter or bypass existing tests."_ example as it is dated for anyone using the latest models (not everyone is... an entirely different access problem that thus makes general purpose vague docs like this hard).  But it felt like we should keep _some_ form of an example undesirable behavior from an insufficiently guided model in here in order to make the more important "Such changes do not offer a real fix and are not acceptable." be tied to a concrete example.  So absent clearly better ideas, and knowing some users will be using lesser models, it still fits.

Reviewer 2: > I'd avoid using the word "trained" as that has a specific meaning in the AI field that isn't really the reason. Focusing on "context" is good as that's the important and widely known term used in AI.

Agreed.

Proposing: 

Due to limited context, an AI tool may alter or bypass existing tests. Such changes do not offer a real fix and are not acceptable."

Reviewer 4: I think "due to limited context" is rapidly becoming the past and is not actually an accurate explanation.  How about we just call it what it is instead of pretending to claim why it happens:

"Reward hacking behavior such as altering or bypassing existing tests or removing desired functionality are not real fixes and are not acceptable."

> underlying problem in the code. Such changes do not represent a real fix and are not acceptable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to limited context, an AI tool may alter or bypass existing tests. Such changes do not offer a real fix and are not acceptable.
```

Unacceptable uses
=================

Maintainers may close issues and PRs that are not useful or productive, regardless of whether
AI tools were used or not.

> If a contributor repeatedly opens unproductive issues or PRs, they may be blocked.

Reviewer 8: Possibly tie this back to the Code of Conduct?

Author: I'm not sure.  I don't think it needs to go through the heavy coc process. We have blocked other spam prs without needing to invoke the coc reporting procedure.

Reviewer 8: Agreed it doesn't need to go through coc process. For me it's trying to pull in the framing of how to interact with other human beings in the community. The "open, considerate, and respectful" piece would be nice to pull in without copying.

Author: I'll rephrase it to "because it is disruptive and not respectful of the maintainers' time" without actually saying "the CoC". Does this work for you?

Reviewer 8: Yep, that works for me

Author: Updated.
